# Individual Self-Assessment
Module 20 Individual Self Assessment Deliverable

## Self-Assessment
For my team's Final Project, I took on the role of "Circle," which is the teammate responsible for creating a database to house the data we acquired and analyzed. This data is inclusive of, among other tables, a sample set of data to be utilized in our analysis. I was also tasked with creating visualizations to illustrate our analysis, which I completed using Tableau's visualization software.

Concerning the team's roles I did not take on, I made sure to contribute in a variety of ways. The "Square" role, for instance, was the teammate tasked with maintaining the repo. I and my other teammates had to regularly update our own branches and merge them with the main branch. We also continually completed pull requests as needed to access teammate contributions for each deliverable. The majority of our commits were due to completion of these actions. The "Triangle" role was the responsible party for creating the mockup for the Machine Learning model. Each of the other team members, including myself, had to test the model with our data. The dataset used in the machine learning model was stored in the database I created. Specifically, the data structures for the tables were built by me and I imported the data into those tables. The ML model then accessed the database. We all had to test the model's functionality and did so during our team meetings. The "X" role was responsible with deciding the necessary technologies to be utilized to complete all tasks. I, along with the rest of my teammates, contributed in the decision making behind which vizualization platform we would ultimately use. We deliberated between Heroku's capabilities and considered JavaScipt, but chose to stick with ol' reliable Tableau in the end.

My greatest challenge during the project was digesting how machine Machine Learning would effectively apply to our dataset. I spent a lot of time looking for supplemental data online to add to the complexity of our dataset. While I understood conceptually what Machine Learning is, it took some time to understand what our model was doing. My team continued to meet and discuss the topic, and after completing the sample analysis and comparing it to that of the full dataset, I became clearer on how the model was being applied.

## Team Assessment
My team's communication was effective and seamless. We met regularly outside of class and worked through issues as they presented themselves. As discussed above, during the initial weeks of the project, we all spent massive amounts of time trolling websites with hopes of being able to scrape supplemental wine data to add to our dataset and increase it's complexity. Ultimately, much of the detailed wine characteristic information we desired was proprietary and we were not able to access the extra data for use. No one teammate sat around while the others did work. We all checked in during class and outside meetings to provide updates. Our tasks to be completed by the next meeting were clearly outlined and sent to everybody via Slack. We also took turns on who was the center of focus for each meeting. For instance, during the days we focused on the ML model, "Triangle" moderated the meetings. On days when we discussed issues related to our database or Tableau, I moderated a bit more. That isn't to say we weren't all involved in the development of each of the pillar components, but by allowing the responsible party to moderate, it encouraged each of us to stay on our toes in order to deliver new updates for subsequent meetings. 

We had minimal challenges. One that immediately comes to mind was our deliberation on how we would split responsibilities. A few of us wanted to take the lead on the same roles, so it took some time to agree on who would do what. Also, although we met regularly, our schedules did not always coincide with our scheduled meeting times. This usually resulted in us moving meeting times around, but sometimes involved filling in team members who were not able to attend individual meetings. As stated above multiple times, and probably the most annoying of the challenges (to me) was the lack of success in finding more data to support our analysis. The wine characteristics we analyzed are microspecific (is that a word?), and finding related data was difficult enough on its own. Being unable to access that data via API or web scraping was just icing. The good that came from that process: we quickly learned when those issues were beyond our control and when we needed to move on to submit deliverables in a timely manner. Next time, I might suggest working in pairs to find supplemental data, instead of each of us looking on our own. We had four members on our team, and its entirely possible that each of us had our own ideas of what factors should be considered concerning relevant supplemental data, or at least how those factors should be prioritized. Two subgroups of two teammates looking for data would've lessened the possibility of each of us coming back with 4 completely different datasets, which we'd then have to discuss as a team to determine which are useful and which are not. Two sets of eyes would lessen the likelihood that certain important factors might be overlooked. 

Effective communication between teammates is imperative to successful completion of this project. The reason our process was so seamless is because each of us were responsive and reliable. Delegation of responsibilities is important, but without individual teammates stepping up to the plate to complete what they take on as tasks, the process will go nowhere. That isn't to say we didn't get stuck at certain points. Again, this is where communication came in. We had a few impromptu meetings to discuss any hiccups and regularly messaged through Slack if there were any questions that could be answered more immediately.

## Project Summary
Our idea was to do comparative analysis on the minute characteristics of various wine types in the Vinho Verde region of Portugal. We implemented a Machine Learning model to see if it is possible to determine if a wine is red or white based on a particular wine's individual properties. Turns out, it is possible to make that determination with a 98.7% accuracy.
